[00-00-00.000_30.000]: Hey everyone, so this is gonna be a completely free course on how you can use chatGBT. And again, to you if you watch this video from start to finish, you'll become an expert chatGBT user. We'll be going over 15 different types of command prompts that you guys can use. And yeah, I think you're in the blown away by just how powerful chatGBT is and the wide range of things that it can help you with. So why recommend you guys do is not only watch this video, but as you watch it follow along, create your own account, enter in the prompt with me, and I
[00-00-30.000_30.000]: So I have chatGBT open up right here. If you guys go to chat.openAI.com, it's going to bring you to this page. We'll be linking this down below. So it's a little easier for you guys. But the first thing you ever want to do is come here and click sign up. Now if you already have an account, you guys can click the login of course. But I'll show you guys how to do this. Basically it's going to want your email address. And another way to actually create your account is by setting in with Google or with your Microsoft account. So you'll enter in your email address here.
[00-01-00.000_30.000]: click continue. It will send you an email to confirm your accounts. Once you confirm your email, you'll be able to access your accounts. So this is the dashboard for chatGPT. As you guys can see, I have chatGPT plus which is $20 per month as I am selling this video. But this is not required. As long as you guys use chatGPT 3.5, default or legacy, these are going to be completely free to use. If you do have everyone try GBT4, you guys can pay for this account,
[00-01-30.000_30.000]: you guys how to use a chatGBT for free. So the 3.5 version as I'm filming this video. So over here on the left is where you can create new chats and the really cool thing about chatGBT is that each of these new chats, it sort of remembers what you type. So you can view each of these chats over here as like a new conversation. It'll be able to remember the context of other answers that it gives you within that chat. So you can sort of view each of these chats as a separate person who you've already had
[00-02-00.000_30.000]: Now you guys do need to know that there are some limitations with chatGBT. All the data that chatGBT has learned only goes up to September of 2021. So if there's anything that has happened since then, if not going to know that that has happened, to just take that to account one asking me at certain questions, right? It's not going to be able to answer questions on current events. Also, not everything will answer or 100% of its response is going to be accurate. There may be some discrepancies, there may be some errors.
[00-02-30.000_30.000]: to make sure that the answer is accurate and correct. So now talk about the different command types and the first one we're talking about today is asking chatGVT for specific facts or details. And by the way, we're going to be going from sort of like basic stuff to more advanced things. So yeah, just keep that in mind. So just like with Google, you can ask chatGVT to give you certain facts. Right. So for example, I can come down here. And I can ask who is the founder of Apple. It's going to give us our answer.
[00-03-00.000_30.000]: the Wadmack and Ronald Wayne. This type of command prompt is not that interesting because you can literally do this with Google or any other search engine. But the cool thing about chatGBT is that it's more of like a conversation instead of searching on Google and having to look through different websites to get your actual answer. This is going to sort of summarize all that information from all the data that's learned from and present that information to you with a written response. So it's sort of like the Google Knowledge Panel that you guys may have seen which basically
[00-03-30.000_30.000]: answer. This is just like a better version of that. You guys can get creative with the types of answers and facts that you want to ask it and really it should be able to answer almost anything you throw at it. Just another example let's say who wrote the book how to kill in mocking groups. So the presents are answered and that is correct. Yeah super super basic and that's just the first command type that we're talking about. All right the second command type is actually asking for suggestions. I'm
[00-04-00.000_30.000]: on pretty much any topic. So I'm really into self development. I can ask it something like recommend five books about self development. So as you guys can see I've asked it to recommend five books. I've been very specific with that. About a topic which is self development. All right, so that is the answer that's given me. If you guys don't like the answer that's given you, you guys can always click regenerate or spawn. I saw I'm actually going to click on that right here just to show you guys. It's going to go ahead and recreate that answer. It'll likely be different
[00-04-30.000_30.000]: Now we see this little thing right here, two of two. This means that there have been two answers generated for this specific prompt. We can actually tall a little back and forth between these two different answers. And of course, we can keep regenerating. It'll have a third one and so on. Now one thing you guys can do is actually click the thumbs up or the thumbs down button. This is more to train the AI. So if there's something in here that's completely incorrect, of course you guys can click on this. You can ask you to provide some additional feedback
[00-05-00.000_30.000]: that feedback. You guys can also ask it something like what are some good shows to watch on Netflix. Now again, the data only goes up to September of 2021 as a right now. So nothing on the list is going to be brand new, but this does seem like a pretty good list of shows, a lot of these I do really enjoy. So yeah, you can sort of view chatGPT as a conti-ers. You can pretty much ask it anything and it's going to know the answer to it. Alright, so the next command prompt we're talking about is language translation. So not a lot of people know this, but chatGPT
[00-05-30.000_30.000]: translate on steroids. I think much better version it's going to be able to translate text a lot better. That's because it takes context and social cues into context. So with the Google translate, you're only getting like an actual word for word translation with chatGVT. It knows how things are actually said and real use and it's going to take all that information and be able to some site a really good translation for you. So let's go ahead and try that right here. What I like to do is I like to first give chatGVT some context. So I'm going to say something like I am
[00-06-00.000_30.000]: and we're currently traveling in Spain and a restaurant and I want to ask the waiter what's your most popular dishes can you translate? Of course, you guys can ask the same exact question many many different ways, but it's just how I've asked it in this situation. You guys can see it knows exactly what I'm asking for, it has that context, and it's going to give us the translation, which is this right here. Now you might not know how to actually pronounce that, so we can go to the next question.
[00-06-30.000_30.000]: how do you pronounce that? And the great thing is that it knows of what you're asking. It's going to give us the actual pronunciation and yeah, it's not super, super cool. Really, really useful for a real-world situation. So not only is this really good for spoken language translation when you're out in about, it's also really good for written translation as well. So if you have blog articles, if you have emails, basically anything that's written, you can basically copy it here and have it translate it for you. The proper business is basically
[00-07-00.000_30.000]: And then write in the text. For example, let me just copy this right here. And it's actually say translate into Chinese. Okay. So it's going to turn that into written Chinese. It's also going to tell us the pronunciation. And yeah, get really creative with this. This is just a very cool feature of chatGPT. And it's like having a language scholar available at any time that you can literally just talk to. All right. So the next command prompt that we're talking about today is comparing different things. ChatGPT is very, very good. This has so much information and data that's created from.
[00-07-30.000_30.000]: can provide very good answers for you guys. So let's go through an example right here. What is the difference between cap and dogs as pets? Super random, right? But going to be able to compare these two different things. And so yeah, even if you give it a very basic prompt like this, it'll be able to create a very cool answer. And so if we look through this, it looks pretty good. It talks about behavior, care requirements, relationship with owners, and also gives us
[00-08-00.000_30.000]: Let's say 200 words or less. You can say rewrite this in under 200 words. And let's say it's also a little bit too complex for us. We can actually say, but pretend like you're writing to a complete beginner or someone that is in fifth grade. Okay, so let's click that. It's going to generate that. You can see now the language is a lot easier. It's a lot shorter. And instead talking about those different categories, which is a little bit more advanced. It's just breaking down to cats and then dogs.
[00-08-30.000_30.000]: that. Yeah, this is obviously a lot more easy to understand for someone up in the sixth grade. And so that's another cool trick with chatGBT. You can literally tell it's the tone you want to use. Who's going to be the one reading the content? So it's going to know how to write it. As well as a number of words you want it to generate. We can also ask something like what are the differences between iOS and Android and bam. It's going to get a very, very good answer. Of course, I always recommend you guys give it feedback.
[00-09-00.000_2.938]: tell it literally anything, right? You can be like this is too
