[00-00-00.024_30.000]: It's time to talk about the best software when it comes to formatting your book, whether that be for print or ebook. Hello everyone, my name is Mimi Lynn. I'm an author, book cover designer in the creator of the book launch planner and I also format books. I've been formatting for a couple of years now, so I've encountered just about everything whether that be poetry books, workbooks, I've done memoirs, I've done your regular old novel.
[00-00-30.024_30.000]: them all. Now I started off as an author just like you guys someone who just wanted to learn how to format a book so they could save the cost of hiring a 4 a matter. I actually started by formatting my books in Microsoft Word. In fact I even have tutorials on this YouTube channel where I tell you how to format your book using Microsoft Word. But what you'll notice very quickly with Microsoft Word is that it's not designed to format books. And while I've greatly enjoyed
[00-01-00.024_29.976]: I can understand why you would want to be able to do all the formatting yourself so you can update typos so you can have complete control over everything so you don't have to pay a fee every time you need to make any sort of update to your manuscript. This is why I created a book formatting course in why I wanted to tell you about it today. This book formatting course is designed for anyone who wants complete creative control over the book formatting process. We're not going to be formatting using Microsoft Word or any other software that's used
[00-01-30.000_30.000]: for book formatting. We're using Adobe in Design because Adobe in Design is a professional software used for all different sorts of layout. And of course specifically in this course I'm showing you how to use Adobe in Design to design the inside of your book as well as your ebook. Now I know what you're thinking why would I use Adobe in Design when I can use other books for formatting software like Atticus or Vellum which are specifically designed for
[00-02-00.000_30.000]: So softwares are just limited in your capabilities. Those softwares will work off of templates where you choose a template and you modify the template in order to basically copy and paste your book in. However, if you want to get really fancy with fonts and images and the artwork that's gonna be on the chapter headers, you're gonna find yourself pretty limited and people like me who are used to having the endless possibilities that Adobe InDesign gets give you,
[00-02-30.000_30.000]: frustrating. I've actually tried out the softwares myself just to see if maybe using the software would make my life a little bit easier and honestly it can just be frustrating with how limited you are with the templates that they give you. Now that's not to say that you shouldn't be using softwares like Bellum and Atticip in the fact I highly recommend it if you are looking for a quick easy way to format your book because that's exactly what those softwares allow you to do but if you want to get really
[00-03-00.000_30.000]: with the layout of your book, you're gonna wanna try out something like Adobe in design. When I was looking into creating this book for a manning course, I actually sent out a survey to all of you to see what you wanted to see in the course and what you wanted to learn. And I know a lot of you were really pushing to learn how to format a book in Microsoft Word. Because Microsoft Word is a tool that people already have, which means it's not something that you need to go out and purchase.
[00-03-30.000_30.000]: how frustrating Microsoft Word can be. If you wanna create proper headers and footers in your book, there's a lot you need to learn in order to work around the way Microsoft Word works, with their headers and footers, it's just not a simple process. And if you wanna create Drop Caps for your chapter headers in Microsoft Word, it's again possible, but it's just somewhat complex process compared to when you do it in Adobe InDesign. Not to mention the fact that if you put images
[00-04-00.000_30.000]: for some reason the way you view it in Microsoft Word versus when you export it as a PDF can sometimes look a little different images move around a little bit text-ish. And it's just one of those weird glitches that Microsoft Word has that Adobe in-designed doesn't when you're in Adobe in-designed. Whatever you're designing on the page, that's exactly how it looks when you export it as a PDF.
[00-04-30.000_30.000]: throughout the entire book can be a little more difficult. Whereas when you're in Adobe InDesign, if you're halfway through formatting your book and decide that you want to use a different font or you want to change the size of the font, it's actually extremely easy to do that and make those changes without having to go back and start at the beginning again. Adobe InDesign is literally made for layout and page design.
[00-05-00.000_30.000]: in of course for books. Now I know a lot of people here the word Adobe and they think that it's gonna be a super complex software that's gonna be hard to learn but I promise you there's just a couple things that you need to know as an author in order to use it as a tool for yourself to seamlessly and easily format your book. And trust me when I say after you take my course and you learn how easy it can be to use Adobe in design you will no longer dread for
[00-05-30.000_30.000]: for my name books. Now, once you get started, it can be super fast and easy and kind of a brainless way to format your book because in Adobe InDesign you create paragraphs, files, and character files, and parent pages, and all these little templates that you use to kind of just set the guidelines for what you want your book to be, and then you import your book into the design template, and you just apply all these styles, and it makes your book look beautiful,
[00-06-00.088_30.000]: When you take my course, I also provide you with an in-designed template that you can use to kind of be a starting point to make sure that you're set up for success. You'll easily be able to choose which pages have headers and footers, which pages has the beautiful chapter header art. You'll have complete control over the margins and lead section of your book, and you'll be able to easily resize the pages.
[00-06-30.088_30.000]: pretty easy to make that change. In the course I'll also teach you how to add images, sub-headers, bullet points, charts, and of course maps to your book so you can really customize it to your full ability. Adobe InDesign is also a pretty affordable software. It is subscription based but what you can do is that you can choose to be subscribed only when you need it. So I'm actually an affiliate for Adobe so if you are interested in using InDesign or any of the
[00-07-00.088_29.912]: affiliate link which will be down below. It's $20.99 a month to use Adobe InDesign and then my formatting course which is available on P-Truble is only $55. So if you take that into account plus one month of the Adobe InDesign subscription, you're at about $75. Which is still incredibly affordable to format your book. Because normally if you hire someone like me, it can cost $275 or sometimes even more if
[00-07-30.000_30.000]: book is a nonfiction book and requires more complex formatting. I create this formatting course because I know as an author I like to do everything myself as much as possible and I wanted to make sure that you guys could do the same as well. I'm aware of the fact that hiring someone to format your book can be expensive. I'm a book for a matter myself. I know what my prices are. And I also know at the end of the day when you format the book yourself and you have access to the in-design files and the knowledge to edit those in-design files, it's going
[00-08-00.000_30.000]: easier for yourself to make updates and to correct any typos that you may spot down the line. Learning to format your books yourself is also a huge tool that you can have in your arsenal if you're someone who plans on publishing a ton of books. Just think of how much money you'll save the more books you publish. Not to mention the fact that Adobe in design is available to PC and Mac users, so no matter which one you use, Adobe in design and the templates and all of that will
[00-08-30.000_30.000]: about my formatting course be sure to ask them in the comments down below and I'll be happy to answer them. If you want to sign up for my formatting course it will also be linked in the description box of this video. I promise you I've made it as cost effective as possible while still throwing in as much valuable information as I can. Adobe InDesign is one of my favorite Adobe softwares and I hope after you take the course you'll learn why.
[00-09-00.000_7.320]: if you hired someone. That is it for this video. Be sure to check out all the links I mentioned down below. I will see you guys all next week.
